[THEME MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Everywhere you look, you
see what you're looking for.
Where you are looking for
God, everywhere you look,
you see God.
People tell me I can't
live in the city.
live with my partner.
People tell me I can't
live in this world of anger
and corruption.
Everywhere you look, you
see what you're looking for.
When you're looking for
God, all you see is God.
Maharajah once went to
visit a young fellow who
was in a college
dormitory, and the fellow
had a pinup a on his wall.
And when he suddenly realized
Maharajah was in the room,
he freaked and he quickly got
up and he turned the picture
to the wall.
And Maharajah said
don't do that.
That's the divine mother.
Wherever you look, you see
what you're looking for.
If you're looking for
God, all you see is God.
How do you stay with God by
stopping reading newspapers,
turning off the news,
by isolating yourself?
Its God at the top of
a mountain, by a river?
Isn't it all just the dance,
the dance of Kali, the dance
of Shiva, the dance
of life energy?
I came to Maharajah
once and I said,
Maharajah, you can't
send me back to America.
I'm too impure.
And he came up very
close and he looked at me
and he looked at my
forehead, my eyes.
He looked at my nose.
He looked at my beard,
and then he said to me
I don't see any impurity.
Wherever you look, you see
what you're looking for.
If you're looking for
God, all you see is God.
What could it possibly mean
to transform the world?
The transformation doesn't
begin with an institution.
We don't organize to
transform the universe.
We don't get a God
squad together to do it.
We start with the
individual human heart.
We start right here
inside our self.
And when your apparatus
of perceiving and sensing
is transformed, then everywhere
you walk, there is only God.
And everybody that you
meet has an opportunity
to see God in themselves
when they look into your eyes
because you are a mirror
because that's what
you are looking at in them.
And when people come to
you and they are angry,
do you see the anger?
Wherever you look, you see
what you're looking for.
When you're in your
ego, you see the anger.
When you're looking for
God, you know what you see?
All you see is God.
Right in the human
heart, the whole process
starts, the great
transformation that
is underway, that is
labeled by so many labels.
It's labeled as narcissism,
self-preoccupation,
as the generation of
me-ism, as decadence.
But maybe it's a reawakening
and a re-understanding
that the basic institution
is the human heart,
the individual human heart.
No bureaucracy will
transform Earth into heaven,
but a human heart,
your heart, can do it.
It takes only one heart
to start the whole chain.
Meher Baba wrote love has
to spring spontaneously
from within.
It is in no way amenable to any
form of inner or outer force.
True love is unconquerable
and irresistible,
and it goes on gathering
power and spreading itself
until eventually it transforms
everyone whom it touches.